**Link to Doc File :** https://docs.google.com/document/d/18KMiumgdXZgEBWHbK4e0MvrsfRveVoTUhBVpVkMNIp0/edit?usp=sharing 

# Blockchain
Blockchain is a decentralized and distributed digital ledger technology. In this technology, Each
transaction or action is sorted in the form of a block. Each block has a timestamp, data, a hash and
a link the hash of previous block. Each block is connected to previous block using hashes to form a
chain. This blockchain is distributed among the users and each transaction is validated by the users.
This ensures that each transaction on the blockchain is valid. The blockchain is distributed among
all the users so this ensures that the blockchain is immutable and secure. Blockchain provides a 
transparent(blockchain is accesible to all users), trustless and secure architecture. Every user has
access to transaction but hashing ensuring all the identities are hidden.

### Use Cases:
  - **Digital Signature:** Blockchain can be used to digitally sign documents and validate them to ensure
    authenticity and credebility.
  - **Game Items/NFTs:** Blockchain cab be used in games to trade items like gun skins, cards etc. similat
    to NFTs. Gods Unchained is a game based on this concept where cards are similar to NFTs and are collected
    and traded by players on their blockchain.

# Block Anatomy

<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <th colspan="2">Block</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Timestamp</td>
    <td>07-06-2025</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Previous Hash</td>
    <td>0x4f324....</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Nonce</td>
    <td>4025/td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Merkle Root</td>
    <td>0xa324d3....</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2" align="center">Data</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Txn 1: A -> B</td>
    <td>Rs. 40</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Txn 2: B -> C</td>
    <td>Rs. 100</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Txn 3: C -> A</td>
    <td>Rs.200</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Merkle Root
Merkle root is a hash value which is generated using the hash values of all the transactions in the 
block. Each block contains multiple transactions to increase overall efficiency of the blockchain.
Merkle ensures that all these transactions are authentic and untampered as changing even a single 
transaction will result in a completely different merkle root. 

##### Lets see how merkle root is generated by taking the above block as an example.
- This block consists of three transactions. To calculate the merkle root, we will first calculate
  hash values for each transactions.
- T1 = Hash(Txn1)
- T2 = Hash(Txn2)
- T3 = Hash(Txn3)
- Now will combine them together one by one to get the merkle root hash.
- T12 = Hash(T1 + T2)
- T123 = Hash(T12 + T3)
- T123 is the hash value for the merkle root.

As we can see that all the transactions are used to create the merkle root hash, so if at any point 
any transaction is changed it will be reflected and caught using the merkle root.

# Consensus Conceptualization
### Proof of Work
Proof of Work(PoW) is consensus mechanism used in blockchain networks to validate blocks. In this 
consensus mechanism, the network participants called miners, compete to solve a complex cryptographic puzzle.
The first one to solve the puzzle gets the right to add the block to the network and is rewarded for
it's service. This process of solving complex cryptographic puzzle(mining) requires calculation of 
millions of hashes per seconds which requires intense processing and miners use high-end GPUs for this
task. These GPUs are intensivly power hungry and requires energy process data and additional energy
to keep these devices cool to ensure device safety and optimal performance. This also makes networks
using PoW consensus mechanism extremely difficult and costly to attack.

### Proof of Stake
Proof of Stake(PoS) is another consensus mechanism which works slightly different from PoW. It uses
validators which are choosen based on stake they put up as collateral. It block is validated by these
choosen validators instead of miners which solve puzzles. This provides a more engergy efficient alternative
to the PoW's energy hungry approach. The validators are choosen based on their stake they put up as collateral and 
if they perform any malicious activity then they removed from network and their stake is confiscated.

### Delegated Proof of Stake
Delegated Proof of Stake(DPoS) is a variation of PoS where network participants or users vote to choose
validators. These validators are given the task of validating each blocks and adding them to the network.
The voting power of each participant is proportional to their stake in the network. This consensus
mechanism is much faster, energy efficient and democratic then both PoW and PoS but it is more 
centralized so it is at the limit of decentralization.
